# AvantCommon

---
 
AvantCommon provides common logic to support the plugins listed below.  
 
* [AvantAdmin]
* [AvantCustom]
* [AvantDPLA]
* [AvantElasticsearch]
* [AvantElements]
* [AvantRelationships]
* [AvantSearch]
* [AvantS3]

## Usage

AvantCommon has the following configuration options.

Identifier Element
:   The element used to uniquely identify an Item. Often this is the Dublin Core **Identifier** element,
    but if your installation uses a different element for this purpose, specify it here. For example:
    **Object ID**. Note that the Identifier Element is what you'll using when establishing relationships
    using the [AvantRelationships] plugin.

Identifier Alias
:   The element used as an alias for the item **Identifier**. Leave this blank if you want the **Identifier**
    element's value to display as an item's identifier. However, if your installation uses a different
    element for the public facing identifier value, specify that element as an alias. For example, if you use
    a **Catalogue #** element to store composite catalogue number such as `2018.123.001`, you could specify
    `Catalogue #` as the alias. Note that the alias will appear in search results and as the
    identifier for thumbnails.

Identifier Prefix
:   The prefix is text that will appear before the identifier or alias. You can leave it blank or
    provide a value. For example: `Item` or `Catalogue #`.

Private Elements
:   Elements that public users should not be able to see or search.
    See [additional information](#private-elements-option) about this option.
    Specify each element name on its on row as shown in the example below.

```
    Notes
    Status
```

Unused Elements
:   Elements that your installation is not currently using and that should not appear on the admin
    Edit page. Specify each element name on its on row as shown in the example below.

```
    Contributor
    Relation
    Format
    Language
    Coverage
```

Enable Lightbox
:   Check the box to display thumbnails using the Lightbox feature described above. This works with
    the thumbnails generated by [AvantSearch] and [AvantRelationships]. When this option is unchecked,
    clicking on a thumbnail displays the larger image in a separate browser tab.
    See [additional information](#lightbox-feature) about this option.


Request Image URL
:    Provide the URL of a web page to display when a user requests an image by clicking the
     `Request this Image` link at the bottom of the Lightbox. When this value is empty, no
     link appears in the Lightbox, only the image's file name. The link includes query string
     parameters for the Item #, item ID, and image file name.

--- 

### Lightbox feature

The AvantCommon plugin provides support for the Lightbox feature that is used by [AvantSearch]
and [AvantRelationships]
on pages that display thumbnails. When enabled, the Lightbox feature lets you click on a thumbnail to see it's
original-size image in a popup lightbox. You can then click the large image in the lightbox to see the next image on
the page (and continue clicking to see the others).

#### The Lightbox feature lets you:
-   Click a thumbnail to see a larger image appear in the lightbox.
-   See other images on the page by:
    -   Clicking on the current lightbox image to see the next image
    -   Clicking the left and right arrows to see the previous or next image
-   Go to the item for the image by clicking on the `View Item` link  in the caption area
-   Close the lightbox these three ways:
    -   Click on the X in the upper right corner
    -   Click anywhere on the page outside the lightbox
    -   Press the Esc key

To enable the Lightbox feature, go to the AvantCommon configuration page and check the box for Enable Lightbox.
If you don't enable the Lightbox feature, clicking a thumbnail will cause the original image to open in a separate browser tab.

---
### Private Elements Option
The **Private Elements** option lets you specify a list of element names that:

-   Won't appear to public users, but will appear to logged in users
-   Will not be searchable via a public keyword search

For example, you might have elements used to record internal information such as notes and item status that
is meant only for archivists. You can specify `Notes` and `Status` as Private Elements
to prevent this information from being visible to or searched by the public.

Here are key points regarding private elements:

-   Private elements will not appear as field selections on the Advanced Search page unless
    you are logged in as an administrator.
-   The text of private elements will not be recorded in the `search_texts` table or in hte public
    Elasticsearch index, and therefore will not be searched when performing a public keyword search.
    This is true whether or not you are logged in as an administrator.
-   To search for text in private elements, an archivist can do a field search in those
    fields, either through the public Advanced Search page or using the native Omeka Advanced Search page.
-   If you add an existing element to the private elements list, that element's text will still be
    contained in the `search_texts` table and in the public Elasticsearch index and therefore be found
    via a keyword search. To hide the element's content, you must
    [reindex your Omeka database](https://omeka.org/classic/docs/Admin/Settings/Search_Settings/) to force the `search_texts` table to be rebuilt without the private element text. You will also need to update the public Elasticsearch index.
-   If you uninstall AvantSearch and want to make private elements searchable again, reindex
    your Omeka database and Elasticsearch index as described in the previous bullet.
 
This features solves a problem in Omeka's native search whereby the text of all elements are searched, including
information that is hidden from public users by the [Hide Elements](http://omeka.org/classic/plugins/HideElements/)
plugin. This can produce keyword search results containing items that match the
search criteria, but that don't display the elements that resulted in the hit. For example, the search might
find keywords that appear in an item's hidden Notes element, but in no other public elements for that item. The user
then gets a search result that appears to contain none of the keywords they were looking for.

## Dependencies
AvantCommon depends on the following open source library which is included in the `views/shared/javascripts` folder.
Click the link below to see its copyright and license.

-   [Magnific Popup](https://github.com/dimsemenov/Magnific-Popup/) - lightbox for jQuery that supports the
    [Lightbox feature](#lightbox-feature)

## Installation

1. Download the latest release from <https://github.com/gsoules/AvantCommon>
1. Unzip `AvantCommon-master.zip` into your Omeka `plugins` folder
1. Rename the folder to `AvantCommon`
1. Activate the plugin from the Omeka `Plugins` page

## Warning

Use this software at your own risk.

##  License

This plugin is published under [GNU/GPL].

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

Copyright
---------

-   Created by [gsoules](https://github.com/gsoules)
-   Copyright George Soules, 2016-2020.
-   See [LICENSE](https://github.com/gsoules/AvantRelationships/blob/master/LICENSE) for more information.


[AvantAdmin]:         ../avantadmin/avantadmin.md
[AvantCommon]:        ../avantcommon/avantcommon.md
[AvantCustom]:        ../avantcustom/avantcustom.md
[AvantDPLA]:          ../avantdpla/avantdpla.md
[AvantElements]:      ../avantelements/avantelements.md
[AvantElasticsearch]: ../avantelasticsearch/avantelasticsearch.md
[AvantRelationships]: ../avantrelationships/avantrelationships.md
[AvantSearch]:        ../avantsearch/avantsearch.md
[AvantS3]:            ../avants3/avants3.md